.TH "MEDIT" 1 "September 2010" ""


.SH NAME

.P
medit \- text editor

.SH SYNOPSIS

.P
\fBmedit\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILES\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
\fBmedit\fR is a text editor.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-new\-app\fR
run new instance of \fBmedit\fR. By default \fBmedit\fR opens \fIFILES\fR
(or creates a new document if none are given) in an existing instance
of application

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-use\-session\fR[=\fIyes|no\fR]
load and save session. By default \fBmedit\fR does it when \fB\-n\fR is not used.
If this option is not given on command line then medit uses the corresponding
preferences setting.

.TP
\fB\-\-pid\fR \fIPID\fR
use existing instance with process id \fIPID\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-app\-name\fR \fINAME\fR
use instance name \fINAME\fR. If an instance with this name is already running,
then it will send files given on the command line to that instance and exit.

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-encoding\fR \fIENCODING\fR
use provided character encoding to open the file

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-line\fR \fILINE\fR
open file and position cursor on line \fILINE\fR. Alternatively
line number may be specified with filename, e.g.
medit foo.txt:12

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reload\fR
automatically reload opened file if it was modified on disk by another program.

.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-new\-window\fR
open file in a new window.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-new\-tab\fR
open file in a new tab.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR
write debug output into \fIFILE\fR. This option is only useful on Windows.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-window\fR
show debug output in a log window. This option is only useful on Windows.

.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR \fIDOMAINS\fR
enable debug output for \fIDOMAINS\fR (if \fBmedit\fR was compiled with
\-\-enable\-debug option).

.TP
\fB\-\-geometry\fR \fIWIDTHxHEIGHT\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-geometry\fR \fIWIDTHxHEIGHT+X+Y\fR
default window size and position.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show summary of options.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
show program version.

.TP
\fIFILES\fR
list of files to open. Filenames may include line numbers after colon,
e.g. /tmp/file.txt:200. Trailing colon is ignored.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
MEDIT_PID
if set, it is used as \-\-pid argument. When medit spawns a process (e.g. a DVI viewer) it sets
MEDIT_PID to its own process id, so the child process may in turn simply use 'medit filename'
to open a file (e.g. for inverse DVI search).

.SH CONTACT

.P
http://mooedit.sourceforge.net/contact.html

.SH AUTHOR

.P
Written and maintained by Yevgen Muntyan <emuntyan@users.sourceforge.net>

.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.6 (http://txt2tags.org)
